Those who are new,
please come in front.
Already you have been told
about Sahaja Yoga.
Sahaja Yoga
is nothing modern;
it's not a modern invention.
It is the culmination
of the living force
that is working in you,
the living process,
the evolutionary process
which took place spontaneously.
This force that has made you
into human beings,
and the same force is going
to work on somebody more.
So, all other things that we expect
to do about our union with God,
union with our Spirit,
is of no use,
because it has to be spontaneous;
it has to be done
by the living force within us.
Whatever we do is by will.
They are artificial.
So, to change ourself from within,
not from without,
something has to happen
within ourselves.
Because our attention is outside,
we can change our dress as we like.
We can have the kind of chair
that we want to have.
We can have the kind of house
we want to live in.
We can have the garden
we want to have.
But we cannot transform the inside.
That has to happen by some force
already based within us,
which is to be activated.
Unless and until this living
actualisation takes place,
whatever else happens to us
is outside.
When we say we try
to change ourselves,
we cannot go too far.
What we see is how we react,
how we behave,
how we talk to others.
At the most, we might be able
to see how we are sensitive.
Some people are very sensitive,
some are insensitive.
Some are hot-tempered,
some can wait patiently.
Some appear to be truthful.
Some are very lunatic.
Some are dynamic, some are lazy.
But this is all outside.
All these expressions coming
outside are manifesting,
coming from some sort of
a natural thing within us.
Unless and until we transform
those natural things within us,
whatever we do outside
is just superficial.
Like a tree has some sort
of a disease,
or you find some leaves are rotten.
Even if you remove those things,
no use treating the tree
from the leaves.
You have to treat it from the root.
In the same way, within you,
the roots are subtle.
And how to approach those roots?
Those roots are the subtle
centres in you.
I hope they have explained to you
these centres which are with us.
You find it very difficult to believe
that there are these centres.
There are many people who have
never heard about them,
and many who have never heard
about the force,
that power within us by which
we give
expression
to our Self, to our Spirit.
Nobody has seen it
and nobody knows what it is.
Some people have written about it,
some say things about it,
but we cannot believe it.
It's not easy to believe.
It sounds bombastic, maybe
just some sort of a myth.
But if the tree has to manifest,
we have to go to the roots.
Now, how do we do this?
Many people say,
"I look into myself".
How do you do this?
How far can you go?
You cannot even go
to your subconscious.
How can you go
to your unconscious?
If you could go
to your unconscious,
it would not be called
an 'unconscious' — it's conscious.
So your conscious mind cannot go
up to the unconscious.
At the most, you may go
to the subconscious area,
some hallucination or something,
and then come back to the same.
Like a person who wears
blue glasses
sees everything blue
and then gets confused.
There is no transformation
that has taken place in the eyes.
And the others just say,
"Only a little colour change".
And that is not to be accepted
as something real.
Because if it is real,
it doesn't change.
You are a human being;
it's a reality.
If you suddenly change
like a monkey becomes,
and then again you become
a human being,
then your state as a human being
is not a reality, just a dream.
Maybe a monkey is dreaming
he is a human being,
or a human being is dreaming
he is a monkey.
It's just a dream.
There is no reality about it.
In the same way, if we have
to take ourselves inside,
we have to see ourself inside,
we have to take our attention inside.
And how do we do it?
To know if there are any centres,
to know if there are any roots,
to know that all the manifestations
have taken place within us,
or even to know if what I am
saying is true or not,
first your attention
has to go inside.
It has to go.
I don't have to lecture you,
"Take your attention inside".
It's not like that.
It's not in your control.
It's not your doing;
it's a fact,
one must accept it.
How does the attention work?
Till the attention is outward,
it's all on the surface.
How do we take the attention inside?
If there is such an idea in the mind,
that shows your attention is outside.
But it can be taken inside;
not by you,
but by that living force within us
that has made us human beings.
Something has to happen
in our consciousness.
Something has to happen.
Otherwise, we are not going to
believe it. Animals are not bothered;
they don't want to believe in it.
They just exist.
But you want to believe
in something,
to see for yourself.
You want to have the proof of it.
That's why something has to happen
to you as a human being,
that you believe it
and you see it for yourself.
And this happening only takes place
among the human beings.
When a fish became a reptile,
he did not have to feel it;
he just became.
The fish is not bothered.
It has to happen
in your consciousness.
And to happen, something has to
happen within.
And that happening is called
Kundalini awakening,
the awakening of this power.
That is the power
that has to rise within you.
It is placed in
the triangular bone.
You can actually see
with your naked eyes
the pulsation of the Kundalini.
In many people,
you can actually see it.
You can also feel the pulsation
rising.
You can also feel it
on top of your head.
Then the pulsation stops,
and you are amazed
that suddenly you become
completely silent.
There is no thought
and you start feeling inside-out.
You start feeling your centres
on your fingers.
First, you start feeling
the cool breeze coming through you.
Then you start feeling the centres
that are enlightened,
meaning there are subtle centres
enlightened within us.
If your problem is
on the emotional side,
you'll feel it on the left.
If they are on the physical
and the mental side,
you feel it on the right.
Different centres have
a lot to reveal;
you start feeling them.
Many people don't know
how one can change.
Even after 42 days, some struggle.
And I said,
"You are in a bad shape".
He said, "What's the matter?"
I said, "You have got
a very bad liver".
a lot of heat because of the spleen".
"Yes. I have got spleen cancer.
How do you know?"
"I can feel it."
Because I can see myself inside,
I can see in your heart.
Because you can see yourself
in the mirror,
you can see others also.
If you cannot see yourself
in the mirror, you are blind.
That's the first thing one notices —
that you are blind.
When you cannot see
yourself inside,
you cannot see others inside.
And not to feel them
on your fingertips.
And that is why one has to jump
into a new awareness.
A new awareness of a new dimension,
by which you see yourselves inside
and you see others also,
by which you just record
what's wrong with them.
You do not hate or love,
but you know what is wrong.
Actually, you feel them
within yourself.
What could be a greater love
than that?
"Love thy neighbour as thyself."
You just become the other person,
just like that.
A very happy feeling.
Then only you realize
that something new has happened.
Realization these days
is very easy.
It has started working well.
I had to work very hard
in the beginning.
But once it clicked,
now it's much better.
It's very easy,
but there are two things about it.
First is that people don't come
for Realisation.
They are seekers,
born as seekers.
Now, those who are seeking
are also enamoured
by something that is just
with their ego,
in which people say,
"You can do something,
you can stand on your head
and jump on your feet,
and you can get it".
But here we say,
"No, nothing of the kind.
Something has to happen within.
You just can't do anything about it."
"It's too much" —
that somebody has to help you.
It's too much for the ego to accept
that somebody else is going to help.
Or otherwise, it is the superego —
they can just mesmerize,
absolutely mesmerize.
And with mesmerism,
people do all kinds of things.
Here there is complete freedom.
If you want to have Realization,
you can have it.
If you don't want to,
then not.
Even after having it,
if you want to use it,
you are welcome.
Nobody is going to force
Realization on you.
That's your own acceptance
and your own choice.
Otherwise, it doesn't work out.
It cannot go further,
it just stops.
That is why it is a thing
chosen by you earnestly.
Here, Sahaja Yoga doesn't run
after you;
you have to run
after Sahaja Yoga.
It doesn't take any money.
How can it?
You cannot pay for God.
You cannot pay for the Divine.
You cannot purchase God
or sell Him.
It's a living process.
It's your blessing already given.
It's within.
You cannot do anything for it,
I can.
So anybody can say,
"You stand on your head,
you will do it."
But maybe I may say,
"It doesn't work out."
You start thinking
in the third person —
"It doesn't work out.
Now what is it?"
"It works out or it does not
work out."
For example, my own daughter came
on earth without Realization.
It's not necessarily because
she is my daughter
that she should get Realization.
It's your own.
It's your own bank account
that is free.
It is yours.
It is not that you have to judge,
but you are to be judged.
That's so precious,
so wonderful.
The Divine forgives.
It is so great.
God Almighty has already decided
that we have to save this creation,
and the creation is
the human being.
He should save.
He can't afford to destroy it.
And that's how it is —
as if a computer has been put
to the mains.
You start wondering what dynamics
are based in all of you.
You start understanding
the Divine laws and Divine times,
and how your body was specially made
for such a thing as this.
And once you get connected
through yoga,
the whole dynamism starts flowing,
and how every action and
every thought, every word
has a meaning for you.
It is really fantastic
and can happen to anyone,
and it has to happen.
I'm sure you all
are going to feel it.
But I have to tell you
that there is no way
one can bind you.
It is only your own desire —
the pure desire
to become the Self
is the Kundalini.
And if you have that pure desire
really in you,
it is going to work out.
There is no way one can bind you.
There is no membership,
no enrolment, nothing like that.
There is no contract, no force,
nothing!
So it is you who has to accept it
in your own choice,
in your own freedom.
Nobody can force it
down anybody.
And that's why one has to understand
that one has to accept
this thing of Self.
And you know I am here because
I feel that Self,
I feel that spark within Me.
That is why I am here.
You may not believe Me,
but I know it.
I'm here just to give you
what is yours,
what belongs to you.
That's all.
I don't want anything.
I can't take things.
The only thing that I can give
is the subtle spark.
Nothing more, nothing less.
I'm sure it is going to work out.
It started in London with
six people,
and for four years,
I worked with six people.
From these six people,
gradually it grew.
One has to get it,
establish it within you,
rise above.
And you will be amazed
how wonderful it is.
For the first time, I'm in this area.
It's a beautiful area, I must say.
But still, people don't think
of the beauty that resides within.
They don't think of the peace
that they have within them.
They don't want to seek.
They are going to the Moon.
When are they going to go
to their Spirit?
They talk of it, they read about it;
it's a fashion to talk of this.
But I wonder how they use
their mind.
If they were, they would come
to the right place
and to the right path.
I would like to have your questions
now before we start Realisation,
because sometimes people have
some questions in their minds.
All right?